Monthly report June 2025 (#28)
cardano-scaling/website: monthly/2025-06-monthly.md

## Mithril

[Issues and pull requests closed in June](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+sort%3Aupdated-desc+closed%3A2025-06-01..2025-06-30)

### Roadmap

Below are the latest updates on our roadmap:

- **DMQ signature diffusion prototype** [#2402](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/issues/2402): We have started the second phase of the implementation of the DMQ signature diffusion prototype
- **Redesign the website and improve documentation** [#2051](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/issues/2051): The new home page has been deployed on the website
- **Refactor STM library** [#2567](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/issues/2567): We have completed the first phase of the refactoring of the SMT library, and we have started the second phase.

### Distributions

In June, we have completed the following events:

> - Release of the new distribution [`2524`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/releases/tag/2524.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Released the new distribution [`2524`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/mithril/releases/tag/2524.0)
```

> - Activation of the support for UTxO-HD in the Mithril client CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Activated support for UTXO-HD in the Mithril client CLI  
```

> - Preparation of the switch to the new Cardano database certification backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prepared for the switch to the new Cardano database certification backend.
```

In July, the following events are planned:

- Release of a new distribution (`2529`).

### Dev blog

We have published the following post:

- [Switching to Cardano database incremental certification](https://mithril.network/doc/dev-blog/2025/06/17/client-cli-cardano-database-backends)
- [UTXO-HD ledger state snapshot converter command in client CLI](https://mithril.network/doc/dev-blog/2025/06/16/client-cli-utxo-snapshot-converter-command)
- [Distribution `2524` is now available](https://mithril.network/doc/dev-blog/2025/06/16/distribution-2524).

### New website homepage

> The new homepage of the Mithril website has been deployed. It features a more modern design, improved navigation, and better accessibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We launched a redesigned [homepage](https://mithril.network) with a modern look, improved navigation, and better accessibility.
```

The new homepage is now live at [mithril.network](https://mithril.network).

![The new homepage](./img/2025-06-mithril-website.png)
<small><center>Snapshot of the new homepage</center></small>

### DMQ implementation update

Here is the current status of the DMQ implementation:

| **Mini-protocols** | **Pallas** | **Mithril Signer** | **Mithril Aggregator** | **Haskell DMQ Node** |
| ------------------ | :--------: | :----------------: | :--------------------: | :------------------: |
| N2C Submission     |     ✓      |         ✓          |           -            |    _In progress_     |
| N2C Notification   |     ✓      |         -          |           ✓            |    _In progress_     |
| N2N Diffusion      |     -      |         -          |           -            |    _In progress_     |

> The next steps are to complete a end to end test with a Fake DMQ node, and progressively replace it with the real Haskell DMQ node implementation. Our goal is to have the DMQ network start operating in a test network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will complete an end to end test with a fake DMQ node and gradually replace it with the real Haskell DMQ node implementation. Our goal is to operate the DMQ network on a testnet.
```

```bash
./mithril-client --unstable cardano-db verify --db-directory $DB_DIRECTORY
```

### Protocol status

The protocol operated smoothly on the `release-mainnet` network with the following metrics:

- **Registered stake**: `4.7B₳` (`21%` of the Cardano network)
- **Registered SPOs**: `247` (`9%` of the Cardano network)
- **Full Cardano database restorations**: `185` restorations
- **Signer software adoption**: `81.1%` of the SPOs are running a recent version (one of the last three releases).

You can find more information on the [Mithril protocol insights dashboard](https://lookerstudio.google.com/s/mbL23-8gibI).

## Hydra

[Issues and pull requests closed in June](https://github.com/cardano-scaling/hydra/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+sort%3Aupdated-desc+closed%3A2025-06-01..2025-06-30)

![The roadmap with features and ideas](./hydra-roadmap-2025-06.png)
<small><center>Snapshot of the new [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/cardano-scaling/projects/7/views/6) with features and ideas</center></small>

This month, notable [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/cardano-scaling/projects/7/views/6) updates include:

### [0.22.0 Release](https://github.com/cardano-scaling/hydra/releases/tag/0.22.0)

> - Important security fix for security advisory: [Dangerous L1 event finality assumptions & Failed transactions not considered](https://github.com/cardano-scaling/hydra/security/advisories/GHSA-qr9f-mpgf-wp25)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Important security fix for security advisory: [Dangerous L1 event finality assumptions and Failed transactions not considered](https://github.com/cardano-scaling/hydra/security/advisories/GHSA-qr9f-mpgf-wp25)
```

> - Event log rotation feature; `--persistence-rotate-after 10000` to rotate after seeing 10k events,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Event log rotation feature; `--persistence-rotate-after 10000` to rotate after seeing 10k events
```

> - The `etcd` binary is now embedded into the binary, and _used by default_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `etcd` binary is now embedded into the binary, and _used by default_
```

>   Disable with `--use-system-etcd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Disable with `--use-system-etcd`
```
